Good Day, my name is Nakul RAO and I am from team 1053 from the United States Military Academy at West Point.

My team consists of myself, Ethan Wood, and our coach, MAJ Kevin Quigley.

Due to COVID Mitigation circumstances, I will be the one recording this presentation video for you all today.

We chose Problem C, as can be seen on our title slide.

We look forward to presenting you with our findings, so let's just jump into this. 

We'd like to provide a brief road-map of the points that we will be talking about today. We will first establish our strategy for solving this problem. Next we will dive into our variables (and functions that we will use) and some key assumptions and limitations that we needed to make. We will briefly touch on some ways in which this project could, and should, be extended, and finally we will wrap up with a conclusion and our findings.

Strategy:
For this problem, we felt as though the best way to mathematically model the interaction between thousands of people with random, weighted characteristics, would be to run a simulation. Therefore, we created a C++ program to run said simulation.

This program, simulation if you will, runs off of the premise of randomly creating a list with a number of Immigrants and a number of Ugandans, with the tendencies outlined in the provided article, merging the two lists, shuffling it, and then comparing two random individuals from the list (simulating two random people interacting with each other). The two individuals will be compared using the concept of Fitness, which in this case will be used to model influence. The basic premise is that each person will be given a fitness score from 1 to 7 (based off of the premises that we were provided as well as the assumptions that we had to make), and when two people are chosen to interact, the individual with the higher fitness score will change the method of the individual with the lower fitness score. If both fitness scores are equal, then there will be no change in either of the methods.  
It is important to note that this is by no means a perfect way of simulating interactions, and this project could be built upon further for a Masters or PhD Thesis, however due to the time constraints of this project, the knowledge that we were provided, as well as the overall complexity of the project, we felt as though this was the best model to use to simulate the interaction between the immigrants and Ugandans.

NOTE: All of the Code for the project can be found at the GitHub Link: https://github.com/Nakul-27/SCUDEM-Populations 

Variables:
Like mentioned above, we will explain our variables and functions now.

1) The Person Class: Each Immigrant and Ugandan will be modeled off of the Person Class which contains the followings variables, or characteristics: Classification (Either Immigrant or Ugandan), Method (One of the 3 conflict resolution methods), Gender (either male or female), and Age (between the ages of 16 and 65), and a probability of Interaction - or how social someone is (the idea that someone who is more social is more influential).
2) The simulation function runs the simulation. It generates the lists of Immigrants and Ugandans each iteration and it also runs the number of interactions and sees if any of the methods should be changed and it changes them. It will also write to the Pre-Results and Post-Results files the Pre-Results and the Post-Results.
3) The getTechnique() function in the PersonGenerator.cpp file uses the ideas stated in the article to randomly pick a method for each immigrant and Ugandan, in which the Immigrants lean toward Mediation and the Ugandans lean towards Arbitration.
4) We will have two output files, Pre-Results.txt and Post-Results.txt that will show the most-preferred method of both the immigrants and the Ugandans for each iteration. The Pre-Results will show the most preferred prior to the interactions being run (so when the lists are generated) and the Post-Results will show the most preferred after the interactions.

Assumptions:
Like we mentioned above, we need to make a few fundamental assumptions.

1) Genetic/Evolutionary models are good to model social behavior. While we are not properly implementing the idea of fitness in a purely genetic sense, the idea that people are more or less influential depending on characteristics that they have can be thought of as analogous to fitness in a social sense. Hence we think that using genetic/evolutionary models as the base for our simulation is smart.
2) The only interaction that will be happening is between two people. It is possible to extend this project further and have it be where someone's preferred method of conflict mitigation randomly changes without an interaction, to simulate an action such as watching the news or reading a book, however we decided to opt out of this for time.
3) Being a male is much more influential than being a female. Data from our research indicates that both of these societies are heavily patriarchal. This means that, more than any other determinant of Fitness, Gender is the more important.
4) There are more characteristics that would make one more or less influential, however for the scope of this project, we felt as though the ones that we outlined in our variables section were the most influential.
5) The provided article only indicated that the Immigrants tend to lean towards Mediation and the Ugandans tend to lean towards Arbitration as their method of conflict resolution, we had to infer the weights when generating the Immigrants and Ugandans. The weights are as follows: For the Immigrants, 40% Mediation, 30% Negotiation, 30% Arbitration, and for the Ugandans, 40% Arbitration, 30% Negotiation, 30% Mediation.
6) We cannot run this simulation with the actual capacity of people, due to technological restrictions, therefore we need to scale the simulation. The article states that there are 80,000 Immigrants to 42,000,000 Ugandans. This is a ratio of about 1:525. We will be running this with 25 initial immigrants and 13125 initial Ugandans.
7) To simulate additional immigration, and subsequent growth of the immigrant population, each interaction, there will be about a 10% chance to introduce 3% more immigrants into the population. We chose these odds, because we wanted to simulate the idea that over years, there would be periods in which immigrants immigrated in greater numbers.

Ways to Extend this Project:
1) The easiest way to extend this project is to increase the number of interactions/run more simulations, or increase the number of Immigrants and Ugandans.
2) Compile the results and plot them on a graph. 
3) The simulation function currently runs in O(N^2) time. This is because due to time constraints, this was the best way to write the function from our perspective. That being said, the function can be optimized and we suggest that it be optimized in future versions.
4) Use more factors to determine fitness. Like we mentioned before, there is a lot of demographic data that had to be excluded from this project that could be considered when drafting up a more advanced version of this project.
5) Create a method by which one's method could change without interacting with anybody, simulating the action of watching the news and/or reading a book and changing one's opinion.
6) Come up with a more concrete method of determining who is interacting with eachother besides randomness. We were not provided enough data to determine a proper method of deciding who interacts with who, so this would be something good to add on in an extension to the project.

CONCLUSION: Since the Immigrants lean towards Mediation and the Ugandans lean towards Arbitration, we inferred that there would not be much change given the conditions that we had imposed. We found this to be true. PRIOR TO INTERACTIONS: Prior to the Interactions, we found that the Immigrants favored Mediation heavily, arbitration, and then some negotiation, whereas the Ugandans favored Arbitration heavily, and then some mediation and negotiation barely, if at all. POST INTERACTIONS: Once the interactions had happened, we found that the Immigrants favored Mediation and Arbitration heavily, and then barely any negotiation, if at all, and the Ugandans favored Arbitration heavily, Mediation, and then barely any Negotiation if at all. The results can further be seen on screen with the outputs of both the Pre-Results.txt file (LEFT) and the Post-Results.txt file (RIGHT). We ran this simulation 100 times, meaning that we simulated 25,000 interactions, 100 times, totaling 2,500,000 interactions amongst 2,500 Immigrants and 1,312,500 Ugandans split up into 10 populations. Finally, We wanted to be sure to thank SIMIODE as well as the United States Military Academy at West Point for allowing us the opportunity to try our best at this challenging problem. We wish all of the other competitors all of the best. Thank you. Stay safe, and take care.
